# Lab 1: Registering your first node

This section is to be used in conjunction with Lab1, found on your vmStaging provided by the instructor. If you have not recieved access to your vmStaging environment, please reach out to your instructor for help. The purpose of these exercises is to get the participants familiarise with onboarding a new Corda node onto a network. 

Onboarding a new Corda node, which in fact is registering a new identity onto the network requires some preparation before hand. More often than not, the network operator may dictate some rules such as pre-approval of X500 name and email address prior to the actual node registration which the following exercises will demonstrate.   

### Exercise 1: Node registration with the network 
1. Open a terminal and log onto the vmStaging which you have been assigned on your worksheet.
To log into your vmStaging virtual machine, you can use the public IP provided to you on your worksheet.
As a refresher, you can run the following command:
   ````
        [BenjaminTan.HP-876N9KILVM9H] ➤ ssh azureuser@<IP of your vmStaging>
        
        For example:
        [BenjaminTan.HP-876N9KILVM9H] ➤ ssh azureuser@52.187.120.160
   ````
   Next follow the prompt to input your password to log into the VM.
   ````
        [BenjaminTan.HP-876N9KILVM9H] ➤ ssh azureuser@52.187.120.160
        azureuser@52.187.120.160's password:
   ````
   If your login is successful, you will be greeted with the command prompt of the linux terminal under the directory `/home/azureuser/` (or `~/`).
   ````
        Last login: Tue Jun 16 04:08:25 2020 from x.x.x.x
        azureuser@vmStaging:~$
   ````

2. Go to the Lab1 directory in your staging environment and open up the folder of `partya`. In `partya` directory, you should see the following two files and two folder:
   ```
        .
        +--corda.jar
        +--node.conf
        +--certificates
        |  +--<EMPTY>
        +--cordapps
        |  +--config
        |  |  +--<EMPTY>
        |  +--corda-finance-contracts-4.4.jar 
        |  +--corda-finance-workflows-4.4.jar
   ``` 
   
3. Open `node.conf` with your favorite editor in linux and we will replace those text as indicated.
   ```
        1. <ADD_YOUR_LEGAL_NAME> = [Replace with Ps-(Given_Name)(First_Letter_Of_Family_Name)-(Date_as_DDMMYYYY)-party(Letter)] 
        2. <ADD_YOUR_P2P_URL> = [Replace with the URL provided in the worksheet]
        3. <ADD_YOUR_ID_MANAGER_URL_AND_PORT> = [Replace with the URL and port provided in the worksheet]
        4. <ADD_YOUR_NM_URL_AND_PORT> = [Replace with the URL and port provided in the worksheet]
        
        For example:
        1. <ADD_YOUR_LEGAL_NAME> = Ps-BenT-08062020-partya (if I am Ben Tan, and my class today is 08 June 2020 and registering Party A)
        2. <ADD_YOUR_P2P_URL> = p2p-ben-train-ben-staging.southeastasia.cloudapp.azure.com:10005
        3. <ADD_YOUR_ID_MANAGER_URL_AND_PORT> = http://20.44.192.219:10000
        4. <ADD_YOUR_NM_URL_AND_PORT> = http://20.44.197.231:10000
   ```
   
   Once you have completed, save and exit the file.
   
4. Open `certificates` folder, and note that it is currently empty. The next step is to populate it with the network root trust store for the network. Replace the FILE ID as indicated, else refer to references as indicated on your worksheet before launching wget. 
   ````
        wget --no-check-certificate 'https://github.com/nitesh-r3/corda-deployment-training-test/raw/main/network-root-truststore.jks'
   ````  
   Once your download is successful, you should see the file `network-root-truststore.jks` residing in your certifcates folder.
   
5. Change your directory back to `partya` and run the following command to start the initial registration process:
   ````
        java -jar corda.jar initial-registration --network-root-truststore-password=trust-store-password
   ````
   We have indicated that the password to our truststore as `trust-store-password`, but it is not always the case and you should always check with your network operator.
   
   Upon successful registration, you will be greeted with texts indicating that your Certificate Signing Request (CSR) has been sent to the Identity Manager and your node is now polling for the certificate signing approval.
   
   Our network has been configured to auto-sign the CSR, which in a real network would require verification hurdles to be crossed prior to approval.
   
   After a minute or two, your corda node would have received the approved CSR and will shut down. In the `partya` folder, run a list to see what has been created inside. Besides new folders, the important thing to note is your node information and the three new jks files that has been created inside your certificates folder.
   
   ```
        .
        +--nodeInfo-<HASH>
        +--certificates
        |  +--nodekeystore.jks  [the node’s identity key pairs and certificates]
        |  +--sslkeystore.jks   [the node’s TLS key pair and certificate]
        |  +--truststore.jks    [the network/zone operator’s root certificate in keystore]
        +--...
      ```      

   > **_NOTE:_** With the `truststore.jks`, you can safely delete the `network-root-truststore.jks` from the folder. 
   However before you delete the file, we recommend that you copy it into the respective folders of partyb and partyc for convenience.

6. Congratulations on successfully registering your first Party A node. 
Next you should repeat the same steps 2 to 5 on partyb and partyc. Do remember to update the respective **Legal names** for each node correctly before running the node registration process. All names are unique on the Corda network, so you will be thrown an error if you try to register the same legal name twice. Besides the only change you should make in this exercise is the alphabet representing each node i.e. b and c.
    > **_NOTE:_** In the `node.conf` of Party C, we have indicated the P2P URL as localhost. 
    This step is to demonstrate that during a node registration, it is perfectly fine not to have the P2P address assigned by your organisation. 
    The Corda node just need something well formed, so it could be a random IP or just localhost be acceptable.
    Of course without an accessible URL, one would not be able to participate in a transaction. 
    Then again all you want to do at this moment is to register an identity on the network. 

### Exercise 2: Starting up Party A and Party B node 
1. Now that each of you have successfully registered 3 nodes i.e. Party A, B and C, we shall go ahead to start up Party A and B to perform some simple tests. Please leave Party C out as it has only been configured for registration only.

2. Go to the folder of `partya` and run the following command
   ````  
        java -jar corda.jar &
   ````
   The ampersand (&), is added to run the JVM in the background. While running in the background, we can use the same terminal to log into the Corda Shell.
   
   As the Corda node starts up, you will be greeted with the typical startup content. Upon a successful startup, Corda node will announce the following:
   
   ````
        Node for "Ps-BenT-08062020-partya" started up and registered in 20.96 sec
        SSH server listening on port            : 2221
   ```` 
   The SSH port is configurable in the respective `node.conf` file for the node. However for the purpose of consistency for this lab practice, we do suggest that you do not the change the default value.

3. Open a second terminal and log into the Staging VM again, but this time we will go to the Party B folder. 
In Party B folder, repeat step 2 and remember to run the JVM in the background as we have mentioned earlier.

4. Now switch back to the first terminal where we had started the Party A node. In the terminal run the following command to log into the Corda CRaSH shell.
   ````
        ssh -p 2221 testuser@localhost
   ````  
   As it is your first time running the secure shell on the node, you will be asked the following:
   ````
        RSA key fingerprint is SHA256:e3mRb4+3q4+s1v+ojp4R++321ojznyPk0Cgo1lQBc8s.
        Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)?
   ````
   Go ahead to enter `yes` and the next prompt is for the password. We have configured the password to be `password` (see your `node.conf`). Upon passing the challenge, you will have be in the Corda shell with its own command prompt:
   ```` 
        Welcome to the Corda interactive shell.
        You can see the available commands by typing 'help'.
      
        Tue Jun 09 03:02:18 UTC 2020>>> 
   ````
   > **_NOTE:_**  The access to the Corda shell has a timeout following 600s of inactivity. 
   Should you be logged out, you would just need to ssh into the shell again.
   
5. In the Corda shell, enter `run` to list down the commands associated with run. For this lab practice, we are primarily focused on the following
   ````
        1. run notaryIdentities [list down all the notary nodes on the network]
        2. run nodeInfo [the equavalent of whoami on Corda]
        3. run networkMapSnapshot [list down all the nodes on the network]
        4. flow start [starts a flow from the shell with caveats]
        5. flow watch [watch inbound flows to the node]
   ````   
   Try running the commands on the shell and see what is being printed. While doing so, do take note of the x500 name of the notary on this network. Copy it somewhere where you could reuse again later.

### Exercise 3: Performing a simple check and launching  a transaction
1. For a start we are going to test the P2P address (and port) on Party A which we defined in `node.conf` to see it can be access from the internet. Open a third terminal and do not ssh into the Staging VM. In the terminal, run the following command:
   ````
        telnet <P2P URL> 10005
   ```` 
   You will be connected to the appliance if successful.
   ````
        Trying x.x.x.x...
        Connected to P2P URL.
        Escape character is '^]'.
   ````
   At this juncture, your corda node can be reached from the internet via the P2P address which we have defined. There is nothing more you can do, so `CTRL + C` to close the connection.
   Run the same telnet test on Party B, but this time change the port to `10008`.
   
2. If both the connections are successful, we are ready to start a flow to transfer some self-issued cash from Party A to Party  B. 
For start, ssh into Corda CRaSH shell of Party B and run the following command:
   ````
        Tue Jun 09 06:31:34 UTC 2020>>> flow watch
   ````   
   `flow watch` takes us to a screen to witness the transaction happening on this node (Party B) as it occurs.
   In another terminal, ssh into Corda CRaSH shell of Party A and start the following flow:
   ````
        Tue Jun 09 06:31:34 UTC 2020>>> flow start CashIssueAndPaymentFlow amount: $1000, issueRef: 5010, recipient: "<X500 NAME OF PARTY B>", anonymous: false, notary: "<X500 NAME OF NOTARY>"
        
        For example:
        Tue Jun 09 06:31:34 UTC 2020>>> flow start CashIssueAndPaymentFlow amount: $1000, issueRef: 5010, recipient: "O=Ps-BenT-06082020-partyb,L=London,C=GB", anonymous: false, notary: "O=Notary 2020-06-08-02-53-04,L=Zurich,C=CH"
   ```` 
   You will see a series of text showing (progress tracker) the current steps taken by the flow. 
   Once the flow has completed, turn your attention to the shell of Party B. 
   As mentioned, `flow watch` allows one to witness any inbound flows to the node.
   They will be an indication that Party B node has successfully received a transaction from Party A.
   Let us get out of the `flow watch` with `CTRL + C`, and run a vault query on the cash state which Party A has sent to Party B.
   ````
        Tue Jun 09 06:31:34 UTC 2020>>> run vaultQuery contractStateType: net.corda.finance.contracts.asset.Cash$State
   ````  
   As you can see, the cash state which Party A has issued and sent over is currently residing in the vault of Party B.

3. Once you have completed the exercises, we will shutdown both the Party A and Party B Corda nodes.
To shutdown the nodes, go to the Corda node CRaSH shell of each of the node and run:
   ````
        Tue Jun 09 06:31:34 UTC 2020>>> run shutdown
   ````
   Corda node will start the shutdown sequence. 
   To check if the java process has indeed completed, you can enter `bg` to the terminal.
   If there are no java processes running in the background, the message on the terminal will indicate as such.
   ````
        azureuser@vmStaging:~$ bg
        -bash: bg: current: no such job
        azureuser@vmStaging:~$
        
        - OR -
        
        azureuser@vmStaging:~$ bg
        -bash: bg: job has terminated
        [1]+  Done                    java -jar corda.jar
        azureuser@vmStaging:~$
   ````
   > **_NOTE:_**  It is important to have your Party A and B nodes shutdown before you start Lab 2. 
   In Lab2, we will replace the P2P address of the nodes, so we cannot have an instance of the nodes running while we are doing that.