# Lab 2.2: Running the various services

This section is to be used in conjunction with the last section of 02.1, where you would have copied all the necessary appliances into the respective VMs provided.
If you have not done so, we strongly recommend that you complete those task first before starting this section of the lab.
The purpose of these exercises is to get the participants familiarise with the different components while we start running each service one at a time.    

Now that we have all the components in the respective VMs, we are now ready to start the next stage of running these services. 
A typical order of how we start the services is as as follows:
````
    ZooKeeper Cluster -> Bridge Cluster -> Float Cluster -> Artemis Cluster -> Node
````
Having said that, we do need to configure the Artemis first, which we could not have done so in the last section.

### Exercise 1: Setting up and configuring Artemis
1. There is 1 more step which we would need to perform prior to starting the services.
The apache artemis (`apache-artemis-2.6.2`) requires an absolute path to the files, therefore it is better than we run the script to configure the files in the same VM which we will be running.
Rather than having the participant copy and paste into the terminal required command to `corda-tools-ha-utilities` to configure the artemis for this lab, we have embedded the command inside a script `configure_artemis.sh`.
The rationale of bundling an artemis configuring tool with our HA utility tool is to allow the user to quickly spin up an external artemis cluster. It is therefore not recommended for production use.
    >**_NOTE:_** For production, we highly recommend that you consult with a artemis MQ expert in your organisation. 
    There may be policies which your organisation needs to adhere to, so the configuration provided by our HA utility tool may be insufficient.
    
    Open a fresh terminal and log into the vmInfra1.
    In the VM, go to Artemis folder as `/home/azureuser/Artemis`, where you should see the bash script `configure_artemis.sh`.
    Run the script and following the prompts.
    ````
         azureuser@vmInfra1:~/Artemis$ ./configure_artemis.sh
    ````
    When prompted, enter `master` as we are running in vmInfra1.
    The next prompt asks for IPs and Ports to the master and slave, make sure you enter them correctly. 
    Master is in vmInfra1 while Slave is residing in vmInfra2.
    The script will ask for you to review the IPs and Ports one more time before running the actual configuration with the `corda-tools-ha-utilities`.
    Once the tool has completed its run, run a list to examine the content.
    ````
         .
         +--artemis-master [Folder containing your configured artemis master]
         |  +--bin
         |  |  +--artemis.sh
         |  |  +--...
         |  +--...
         +--...        
    ````
    Open another terminal into vmInfra2, and repeat the steps for the Artemis folder while remembering that this time, the artemis is running as a **slave** in vmInfra2.
    Once successful, you should have the following folder:
    ````
         .
         +--artemis-slave [Folder containing your configured artemis master]
         |  +--bin
         |  |  +--artemis.sh
         |  |  +--...        
         |  +--...
         +--...        
    ````
    With the artemis master and slave configured, we are now ready to start the first service: Zoo Keeper.

### Exercise 2: Starting up the services
1. For the subsequent exercises, we are going to open 1 terminal for each of the service. 
Open a new terminal (leave the last 2 terminals open) and log into vmInfra1 for a start. Go to ZooKeeperOne/bin folder and run the following commnd:
    ````
        azureuser@vmInfra1:~/ZooKeeperOne/bin$ sudo ./zkServer.sh --config /home/azureuser/ZooKeeperOne/conf/zoo1 start
    ````
    If you are sucessful, you should see the following message. However we are still not sure if the leader election mechanism is working until we have started all three ZooKeeper services.
    ````
        /usr/bin/java
        ZooKeeper JMX enabled by default
        Using config: /home/azureuser/ZooKeeperOne/conf/zoo1/zoo.cfg
        Starting zookeeper ... STARTED
    ````
    Open a new terminal and log into vmInfra2, go to ZooKeeperTwo/bin and run the same command, while taking care to switch out the path and file names.
    ````
        azureuser@vmInfra2:~/ZooKeeperTwo/bin$ sudo ./zkServer.sh --config /home/azureuser/ZooKeeperTwo/conf/zoo2 start
    ````
    Once the service has started, open another terminal, log into vmInfra3 and go to ZooKeeperThree/bin. 
    Run a similar command, taking care to switch out the path and file names.
    ````
        azureuser@vmInfra3:~/ZooKeeperThree/bin$ sudo ./zkServer.sh --config /home/azureuser/ZooKeeperThree/conf/zoo3 start
    ````  
    >**_NOTE:_** It is very important that start the service in the **order as prescribed one at a time** for the leadership mechanism to work properly     
    
    Once all three services has started, we shall check the `status` of the leadership election. 
    In vmInfra1, run the following command in ZooKeeperOne/bin
    ````
        azureuser@vmInfra1:~/ZooKeeperOne/bin$ sudo ./zkServer.sh --config /home/azureuser/ZooKeeperOne/conf/zoo1 status
    ````
    The status output, if election is successful, it will show the current role of the ZooKeeper instance as leader or follower.
    ````
        If ZooKeeperOne running as a follower:
        
        /usr/bin/java
        ZooKeeper JMX enabled by default
        Using config: /home/azureuser/ZooKeeperOne/conf/zoo1/zoo.cfg
        Client port not found in static config file. Looking in dynamic config file.
        Client port found: 11105. Client address: 10.0.0.6.
        Mode: follower
        
        If ZooKeeperOne running as a leader:
        
        /usr/bin/java
        ZooKeeper JMX enabled by default
        Using config: /home/azureuser/ZooKeeperOne/conf/zoo1/zoo.cfg
        Client port not found in static config file. Looking in dynamic config file.
        Client port found: 11105. Client address: 10.0.0.6.
        Mode: leader

    ````
    You can repeat the same status check for each of ZooKeeperTwo and ZooKeeperThree to check on the role. 
    There will only be 1 leader and 2 followers.
    
    Do not turn off or log out of the terminal. You just leave them alone for now. Next, we are going to leave the three services running and go on to starting the bridge and float on vmInfra1 and vmInfra2.

2. Open 4 new terminals for this next exercise. 
For the first 2 terminals, log into vmInfra1 and vmInfra2 for the remaining 2. 
In one of the terminals for vmInfra1, go to `Bridge` folder and run the following command:
    ````
        azureuser@vmInfra1:~/Bridge$ java -jar corda-firewall-4.4.2.jar
    ```` 
    Once the service starts running, the corda firewall in bridge mode will output a message.
    ````
        BridgeSupervisorService: active = false
    ````
    Now leave the bridge and go on to the 2nd terminal which you have logged into for vmInfra1.
    This time we are going to start the corda firewall running as a float. 
    Go to `Float` folder and run the following command as with the bridge:
    ````
        azureuser@vmInfra1:~/Float$ java -jar corda-firewall-4.4.2.jar
    ````
    Once the service starts running, the corda firewall in float mode will output a message.
    ````
        FloatSupervisorService: active = false
    ````
    Go to the `BridgePrime` and `FloatPrime` folder in vmInfra2 and repeat the same steps as above.
    At the end of this exercise, you would have a bridge float pair with failover. 
    Notice that nothing seems to be running and the float is not listening on the ports. 
    This is perfectly normal as we have not started up the node yet. 
    
    Following the bridge float pair, we still have to start the artemis first before we go on to the node.

3. Go back to the 2 terminals where we had used to configure the Artemis in exercise 1.
For the terminal logged into vmInfra1, go to `Artemis/artemis-master/bin/` folder and run the following command:
   ````
        azureuser@vmInfra1:~/Artemis/artemis-master/bin$ ./artemis run
   ````
   Let the artemis start up and complete its run first before moving to vmInfra2.
   In vmInfra2, go to `Artemis/artemis-slave/bin/` folder and run the same command as follows:
   ````
        azureuser@vmInfra2:~/Artemis/artemis-slave/bin$ ./artemis run
   ````
   The artemis slave in vmInfra will perform the same startup sequence before connecting to the artemis master in vmInfra2.
   Once its connected, the output on the artemis master on vmInfra1 will show that its is sending to its replica.
    ````
        2020-06-08 05:08:51,754 INFO  [org.apache.activemq.artemis] AMQ241001: HTTP Server started at http://localhost:8161
        2020-06-08 05:08:51,754 INFO  [org.apache.activemq.artemis] AMQ241002: Artemis Jolokia REST API available at http://localhost:8161/console/jolokia
        2020-06-08 05:08:51,755 INFO  [org.apache.activemq.artemis] AMQ241004: Artemis Console available at http://localhost:8161/console
        2020-06-08 05:09:03,532 INFO  [org.apache.activemq.artemis.core.server] AMQ221025: Replication: sending NIOSequentialFile /home/azureuser/Artemis/artemis-master/./data/journal/activemq-data-2.amq (size=10,485,760) to replica.
    ````
   While the output in artemis slave in vmInfra2 shows that a backup has been announced.
   ````
        2020-06-08 05:09:06,144 INFO  [org.apache.activemq.artemis.core.server] AMQ221024: Backup server ActiveMQServerImpl::serverUUID=21a97552-a946-11ea-af21-000d3aa1f2d6 is synchronized with live-server.
        2020-06-08 05:09:06,249 INFO  [org.apache.activemq.artemis.core.server] AMQ221031: backup announced
   ```` 
   Now we have the artemis cluster running, we will go on to the final step to start up the Corda node.

4. Open 2 new terminals and log into vmInfra1 for both.
Go to `PartyA` folder and open `node.conf` with your favourite text editor.
Inspect the contents with your instructor before focusing on the database connection fields.
   ````
        dataSourceProperties {
            dataSourceClassName = "com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerDataSource"
            dataSource.url = "jdbc:sqlserver://<database server url>:1433;database=<database name>;encrypt=true;trustServerCertificate=false;hostNameInCertificate=*.database.windows.net;loginTimeout=30"
            dataSource.user = azureuser
            dataSource.password = Cordacorda1234567
        }
        
        For example:
        dataSourceProperties {
            dataSourceClassName = "com.microsoft.sqlserver.jdbc.SQLServerDataSource"
            dataSource.url = "jdbc:sqlserver://ps-db-bent-server.database.windows.net:1433;database=ps-bent-partya;encrypt=true;trustServerCertificate=false;hostNameInCertificate=*.database.windows.net;loginTimeout=30"
            dataSource.user = azureuser
            dataSource.password = Cordacorda1234567
        }
   ````
   Most of the database connection to the Azure SQL has been configured and entered for you. You would just need to put in the database server's url and the database name which the node will connect to.
   For convenience, we have provided the same database server for both Party A and Party C, so do make sure you enter the correct database name for the nodes.
   
   Once you have entered the database url, save and close the `node.conf`, now we shall start up the node as with Lab1.
   ````
        azureuser@vmInfra1:~/PartyA$ java -jar corda.jar &
   ```` 
   As with Lab1, do take note of the ampersand so that we can run the JVM in the background.
   The node should start up without any errors and will output a message saying it has started up eventually. 
   ````
        Node for "Ps-BenT-06082020-partya" started up and registered in 20.96 sec
        SSH server listening on port            : 2221
   ```` 
   Once the Party A node starts connecting to the artemis, you will notice that your bridge and float will spring into life.
   One of the float corresponding to the bridge which activates it, will start listening on the port which we have assigned oin the config.
   ````     
        FloatSupervisorService: active = false
        FloatSupervisorService: active = true
        Now listening for incoming connections on 10.0.0.6:10005
   ````
   Your Party A node is now ready to accept inbound messages! 
   Now repeat the steps for Party C, making sure you have entered the correct database name (instead of that for Party A).
   
5. Once you have started up both Party A and C node successfully, we will take a look at the backup or cold nodes residing in vmInfra2.
Strictly speaking, both Party A and Party A' should share a common persistence storage for certificates, nodeInfo etc. 
The node.conf, however has to be different.
Again for the purpose of this lab, the 2 nodes are running on 2 difference disks, but we have copied over all the common files.
In this exercise, we shall try to start up a cold node while the other is running to see the effect.

   Open a new terminal and log into vmInfra2.
   Go to `PartyAPrime/` folder and update the database url in the `node.conf` like Party A in exercise 5. 
   Once done, save and exit the `node.conf`.
   We will start the Party A' node to see we could start up.
   You will notice that the JVM pauses at the database connection, which is normal.
   ````
        Database connection url is              : jdbc:sqlserver://ps-db-server-ben-test.database.windows.net:1433;database=ps-db-ben-partya;encrypt=true;trustServerCertificate=false;hostNameInCertificate=*.database.windows.net;loginTimeout=30;sendStringParametersAsUnicode=false
   ```` 
   However to see what is actually happening behind the scenes, I would ask that the participant open another terminal int vmInfra2 and go to `PartyAPrime/logs/` folder.
   In the logs, you should see a file `node-<vm prefix>-vmInfra2.log`, at the end of the log, you should see the following:
   ````
        [INFO ] 2020-06-08T05:28:07,196Z [main] databaseInitialisation. - DatabaseInitialisation(id="wNmkuesg";status="successful") {}
        [INFO ] 2020-06-08T05:28:07,359Z [main] persistence.RunOnceService. - Node last run on different machine:/home/azureuser/PartyA/partyaNodeServer1 PID: 6817. Now running on /home/azureuser/PartyAPrime/partyaNodeServer2 PID: 7035 {}
        [WARN ] 2020-06-08T05:28:07,534Z [main] persistence.RunOnceService. - /home/azureuser/PartyAPrime/partyaNodeServer2 PID: 7035 failed to become the master as an already running master has been detected. This process should not be started while there is an already running master. /home/azureuser/PartyA/partyaNodeServer1, PID: 6817 is the detected master. If the master has only just terminated try again in 40 seconds. {}
        [INFO ] 2020-06-08T05:28:07,536Z [main] internal.Node. - Will sleep for MutualExclusionConfiguration(on=true, machineName=partyaNodeServer2, updateInterval=20000, waitInterval=40000).waitInterval seconds till lease expires then shutting down this process. {}
   ````  
   A database lock is applied by Party A node when it accesses the Azure SQL as `/home/azureuser/PartyA/partyaNodeServer1`, so when the Party A' node tries to connect to the same database, it is blocked.
   The node will persist for a while while waiting for the lock to be lifted else it will eventually timeout and shut down.
   Let's not wait for the timeout and enter `CTRL+C` to shutdown the JVM.
   I will leave Party C' to the participants, so they want to have a go to see if the behaviour is the same as that of Party A'.

6. Now that we have a full HA Corda node deployed, we will start the Party B in vmInfra4 for completeness before we end off this section of the exercise.
Open a new terminal and log into vmInfra4. For Party B, there is nothing we need to change, so we can just run it.
   ````
        azureuser@vmInfra4:~/PartyB$ java -jar corda.jar &
   ````
   Once it has started up. We shall be ready to start the next section of the class.        
    
    
    
 
     