# Lab 2.3: Connectivity checks

This section is to be used in conjunction with the last section of 2.2, where you would have successfully started Party A and Party C node behind the Corda firewall (bridge-float pair).
If you have not done so, we strongly recommend that you complete those task first before starting this section of the lab.
The purpose of these exercises is to perform some checks to ensure that our node is wired properly and could connect to the counter-party nodes (represented by the participant's Party B node).  

Having spent the effort to set up a full HA Corda node (2 in fact), we do need to have an ability to check for connectivity. 
To date, we can perform 3 main checks: telnet to float listener, running the Corda health survey tool and lastly, simply running a transaction with the pre-installed finance cordapp.
 
### Exercise 1: Telnet to the listening float
1. In Lab1, we have used telnet to check if there is connectivity of the Corda node from the internet.
However in a HA Corda node setup, we cannot reach the Corda node directly, and not supposed to, in any case.
As part of the setup to connect to the listening float via the loadblancer, we have configured the latter to relay messages sent to port 10005 from the internet and backport to 10005 on VMs assigned.
The loadbalancer has a health check to investigate which float is currently running i.e. either vmInfra1 or vmInfra2 before sending the package.
As such if we could successfully telnet to the float, we would know that the loadbalancer is working as configured.
Open a new terminal and enter the following command:
   ````
        telnet <your internet facing URL for the loadbalancer> 10005
   ````
   A successful connection will bring up the telnet prompt which you can enter `HelloCorda`
   ````
        [BenjaminTan.HP-876N9KILVM9H] ➤ telnet p2p-deployment-workshop.southeastasia.cloudapp.azure.com 10005
        Trying 20.44.238.217...
        Connected to p2p-deployment-workshop.southeastasia.cloudapp.azure.com.
        Escape character is '^]'.
        HelloCorda
        HelloCorda
   ````
   The float will respond with an echo of `HelloCorda` if float has been configured correctly.
   After the initial `HelloCorda`, any subsequent text you enter will be echoed. 
   For example if you enter `Hi`, the float will respond with `Hi`.
   To exit, press `CTRL + ]` followed by entering `QUIT` on the telnet command prompt.
   
2. Next we are going to have a quick review on the Corda firewall Float config. 
   In the same terminal, log into vmInfra1 and go to `Float/` folder.
   Using your favourite editor, open `firewall.conf`.
   At the end of the config, you will see 2 lines:
   ````
        silencedIPs = ["168.63.129.16"] //Microsoft load balancer health probe
        healthCheckPhrase = "HelloCorda"
   ````
   For the first line, the float will stop logging messages regarding pings from the loadblancer health probe, while the second line shows the phrase which you have used during the telnet earlier.
   Once you have reviewed the file, exit and go back to your home directory.

### Exercise 2: Using the Corda health survey tool
1. Since Corda Enterprise 4.0, we have been shipping a connection tool checker for corda enterprise. 
However, the tool is still being improved as we continue to improve its usability with feedback from customers.
In this exercise, we will only run the tool to check connectivity for Party A node with respect to its connection to the following:
   ````
        Internal
        1. Artemis
        2. Bridge (the one currently activated)
        3. Float
        4. FloatPrime
        5. Party C
        
        External
        1. Network map
        2. Identity manager
        3. CRL endpoint
   ```` 
   In the home directory of vmInfra1, go to `PartyA/` folder and run a list of the contents.
   You will see that we have copied into the main directory the tool `corda-tools-health-survey-<Version>.jar`.
   To run the tool, you simply launch it as you would with any JVM.
   ````
        azureuser@vmInfra1:~/PartyA$ java -jar corda-tools-health-survey-<Version>.jar
   ```` 
   In particular, as you are observing the tool springing into action, there are some attributes which I would like to highlight.
   ````
        Corda Health Survey Tool 4.4.2
        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
        ...
        ✘ Configuration files contain plain text passwords [Our username and passwords in the node.conf is in plain text]
        ...
        ✔ Echo test complete, message count is 5 [Echo is ping test to each of the 5 internal components]
        ...
   ````
   If all is well, you will not have an error. 
   However if you do encounter one, then you might want to inspect the bundled log files (zip), listed when the tool has completed its run.
   ````
        For example:
        ✔ Exported report to /home/azureuser/PartyA/report-20200608-051847.zip
   ````
   We have copied the tool into the folders of all the nodes including their standbys (cold node). Please feel free to go ahead to run them should you be interested.
   
### Exercise 3: Running some simple transactions
1. After having set up the nodes, it is not so exciting if you can't run some simple transactions. 
However the purpose is to illustrate and to reach a conclusion if the mechanism we have designed to route the messages are indeed working.
In short we are going to perform 4 simple transactions to check the following:
   ````
        1. Party B -> Party A [The float is receiving the message and it reaches the target node]
        2. Party B -> Party C [The float is reaciving the message and it reaches the target node]
        3. Party A -> Party B [The bridge has succesfully sent the message outbound to the target node]
        4. Party A -> Party C [The bridge can route the message successfully to the target node]
   ````
2. While this exercise is similar to what we had done in Lab1, we will use the first transaction as an illustration. 
Open a new terminal for both Party A and Party B in vmInfra1 and vmInfra4 respectively if you have not done so.
On both the terminal, we shall log into the respective Corda CRaSH shell as you have learnt in Lab1.
If you have forgotten how to do so, here is an example:
   ````
        ssh -p <ssh port> testuser@localhost
        
        For example for Party A:
        ssh -p 2221 testuser@localhost
        
        Enter the following password when prompted:
        password 
   ````
   As we are creating the transaction from Party B, we shall run `flow watch` on the node receiving the transaction, which in our case is Party A.
   Once flow watch has started in Party A, we shall run the following command in Party B:
   ````
        Tue Jun 09 06:31:34 UTC 2020>>> flow start CashIssueAndPaymentFlow amount: $1000, issueRef: 5010, recipient: "<X500 NAME OF PARTY B>", anonymous: false, notary: "<X500 NAME OF NOTARY>"
                
        For example:
        Tue Jun 09 06:31:34 UTC 2020>>> flow start CashIssueAndPaymentFlow amount: $1000, issueRef: 5010, recipient: "O=Ps-BenT-06082020-partyb,L=London,C=GB", anonymous: false, notary: "O=Notary 2020-06-08-02-53-04,L=Zurich,C=CH"
   ````
   > **_NOTE:_** If you have forgotten the X500 names of your Party A node or the Notary node, you can run `run nodeInfo` or `run notaryIdentities` respectively
   
   After the flow is successfully completed (see the progress tracker) on Party B, you can see activities on Party A node showing that it had received the transaction.
   To make sure Party A has received and saved the state into its vault, get out of flow watch with `CTRL + C` and run a query.
   ````
        Tue Jun 09 06:31:34 UTC 2020>>> run vaultQuery contractStateType: net.corda.finance.contracts.asset.Cash$
   ````
3. If you are feeling confident, repeat the process for transactions 2 to 4. 
Once complete, you have fully deployed your full HA Hot-Cold node setup with a fail-over bridge float running on a 3rd party artemis, connected to a durable Azure SQL database.   
   
  
      
    
    
    
 
     